Hey hey! So, in this video we're going to be setting up player spawn points, we're going to fix a few
dodgy trees, talk about staying object
orientated, we'll set up player spawn
points, in the Hierarchy, and then, we'll
create a Player.cs script. So, let's go
and take a little look at what we've got
so far.
First thing I noticed when moving around
my scene is, I've got some dodgy trees here.
Look at this, if I zoom in to these broad
leaves they go a bit nuts. Look ah they've gone crazy. So, what's that about?
Well, I don't know they've gone buggy.
They've probably been auto placed too
low or something like that,
outside of their working parameters. Some
of these trees are well well dodgy,
to use a technical term. So, of course you
can, just as a reminder, with the trees
you can get your brush here, and you can
hold down Shift and click and take away
those trees. That's one way of fixing
dodgy broadleaves that have gone out of
control like that. So, you may want to
check your terrain and see if you've got any
broadleaves that are misbehaving. The other way, of course, you could do it if you
wanted to, although it would break some of
your work, is to go to the trees again
and to just remove, well,  not remove necessarily the trees, but Mass Place Trees again, either
one at a time or by having both of them and clicking Mass Place Trees. But if you
uncheck Keep Existing Trees you'll get a whole new load of trees, but that will include
trees in daft places like the bottom of river beds and stuff, so you'll have
to go through and do that work again. I just
wanted to show you that, in case you have
the bug. Ok so, respawning, player respawning. I want the player to spawn in different
places, but who's going to be responsible?
What Game Objects are going to be responsible for this?
In this project, I'm very keen to stick as
object oriented as possible. The slight
challenge with player respawning is it's a very non-physical idea. What should be
responsible for respawning a player? We
don't really have a concept of suddenly
dying and being transported somewhere else. So, I'm going to start off by trying to do
it on the player itself. We're actually going to make a player script, that we put on the player
itself, and then, use that to transport
itself back to a spawn point. So, I want to make
this nice and robust. I want to make it so
that you or a designer can easily add
more spawn points. So, the way that I
suggest we do it's like this, we create
ourselves an empty GameObject,
call it Spawn or Player Spawn Points,
like that to be quite explicit, and then. I'm going
to reset it's transform, because it doesn't have any obvious meaning. I'm just going to move a
few things around in the Hierarchy, Terrain, Water Table, Player Spawn Points. It kind
of makes sense, that order to me, doesn't
change anything as you know by now.
So, under Player Spawn Points I'm going to
create child objects, and I'm going to call
this Spawn Point, now I'm going to use (1) in brackets like that, you'll see why.
Unity 5.1 auto numbers things like
follows, if I have 1 in brackets and
then do Command or Control + D to duplicate the spawn point, look what happens,
I get Spawn Point 2, 3, 4, 5, which is great. Now, why am I not starting counting at zero? Just
because I want to know how many spawn points I've actually got here. I could start
counting at 0. If it offends you that I'm
counting at 1 then, ok let's
start counting at 0, it doesn't really make any difference. Then, this will
count up like that. You've just got to
remember now, it means you've got 6 spawn points.
I'm going to go there, I'm going to go with a 0, do a U turn on you. So, let's imagine
we've got a spawn point, let's see where
this spawn point is in the scene,
so basically the wrong place to be honest. 200 by 55 by 200, let's try that as a spawn point. And for each
spawn point you need to make sure, using
the Transform Tool, that it makes sense,
that it's somewhere that the player
could spawn. So, this one looks ok, Spawn
Point (0). So, just go ahead and make yourself a few spawn points now. I'm going to duplicate that
and just move a few around the map. One way to do that's to zoom right out here and say well,
we could spawn in this corner. Again, check the spawn point isn't in a
mountain, in a tree, whatever. Cool! I'm going to zoom out and just make maybe three.
It doesn't matter how many, because the code is going to respond to how many spawn points
you've got automatically, which is going
to be really nice. You're going to write that
code, of course. We don't let you get away
without a challenge in a particular
section or a particular video. So, there you
go, got a few little spawn points set up
now, and they're all childed to this Player
Spawn Points object. So, what we're going to
do is, we are going to get you to arrange for a
respawn of the character. Now, it's going to be using a new script, which I'm
going to put on the FPS Controller, which I
may as well actually just rename to
Player. And I'm going to call that script simply Player for now. Call a box a box. New
script, Player. So, we have a Player Script,
and then, I'm going to get you to write this
script, so that it does the respawning we want to do. So, here's your
challenge slide. So, go ahead and arrange
random player spawning. Find all the
Player Spawn Points that are children of
that object we just created, randomly
select one of them, write a respawn
method inside there so that it can be
called, and make it like a Boolean checkbox in the Inspector, against the Player Script, so
that if you check it he or she or it respawns to any of the spawn points randomly. And then,
that checkbox unchecks itself, so the
checkbox works just like a button,
in the Inspector, just to keep it simple. So, you check it, respawn somewhere, check it, respawn
somewhere else, just so you can test your spawning. Now, when you try and find all
those child or children spawn points, you might want that method I've linked you to at the bottom there, which
is the GetComponentsInChildren method.
Think that's going to be the main one you want
to use, but it's up to you. Good luck and I'll
see you in a minute! Fan-didally-ann-tastic!
So welcome back! We want to now go ahead and get this code written. I procrastinate
when I bring up some of the code on
another screen, so that I can make sure
that I know where I'm going with this.
Fantastic! Here we go! So, what we're going to do is to
firstly expose a transform, because it's the
simplest thing we can expose... the
least weighty object, and we're going to
call that playersSpawnPoints;
And this is simply the parent of the spawn points. Ok, so we expose that in the Inspector. Now, I like the
habit of going straight over and
connecting things. So, once it builds, you
can get here and you can go Player Spawn
Points, drag in there. Great! So, that's
an easy way to get access to your
Player Spawn Points, right. And I said we
should also put in a quick boolean
respawn checkbox, and start it being false.
So, what that will mean is here we just
have a...
using a checkbox like a button, which is a
bit dodgy, but we're going to want to click it,
and then, it will immediately unclick but it will have walked your player to the right
place. So, we start off by saying spawn
points. Actually we need a private...
We're going to need a private variable for the spawn points, aren't we of course. So, they were
public members. Here we go, let's go for a private... private Transform array, isn't it?
It's an array of Transform called the spawnPoints. Once we've got that, let's go
find the spawn points. So, you look at the playerSpawnPoints transform, and then, you
GetComponentsInChildren. And we're looking at this guy and we're getting components in
the children, because that's all we've got. And how are we going to know what we're
looking for, in terms of types of
components? Well, the only type they have
on them, the only script they have on them, the only class they have on them is a
transform. So, we just go find the children
transforms. Now, it's not entirely clear
to me, whether when we do this it will
also return the player spawn point
itself, and we'll find out in a minute if it does. Cool!
So, in fact, why don't we find out right now if it does. Why don't we just go print (spawn Points.Length);
Ok, and see how many things
come back. Are we getting three or four? Let's just
take a look. Let's run... And it'll also make sure that our fetch is actually working for... So, it
is taking in this Player Spawn Point and
all of its children.
Alright, so actually my numbering where I
was saying well should we start numbering
at 1 may have been more sensible,
because actually Array Element 1 is
going to correspond nicely then, because Array Element 0, from that find, will
actually be this guy here, the parent, but
whatever, the numbering you can change if
you want to, to match the code. Sometimes, you don't know until you do it
right? That's the lesson there. So, then I
want to have a respawn method, so
let's write the respawn method. We keep the update there for the Toggle Button. So, void
Respawn, and we'll keep it private for
the moment,
because only the player is going to decide
when it should respawn, so let's
explicitly make it private.
If I could spell properly, there you go. Fantastic! So, we're going to need some sort of randomizer. I'm just
going to call it i for simplicity in index, and
we just use Random.Range
Now, when you type Random.Range, I'm
sure you've noticed this by now in the course, but look you've got two signatures for
this method. One takes in floats and
returns a float, and if you use the Right Arrow on
your keyboard, the Right Cursor Key, this
one takes in integers and returns
integers. I'm going to use the second
signature, so I'm going to expect an
integer back, which is what I'm saying
there. And I'm going to go between one,
because we just tested that it's array index 1 for the 1st child, array index 0 is
the parent. And what's the top point? Well, it's spawn point. That's what we used above, I just
deleted. The print statement, I just
deleted, didn't I. Ah, there you go, spawnPoints.Length
Ok! Now, is it length or length - 1? I think it's
.Length, because if we look at the
documentation for Random.Range I
think you'll find that the top end of it
is exclusive, rather than inclusive.
So, there's just the silly little things
you need to look at. If in doubt just do
some testing and debugging. So, Random.Range
Where is it, here? And if we look at the
signature for the integer version, which
is here, then exclusive maximum. Ok so,
that's the sort of thing you need to
keep an eye out for. Anyway, I digress, here we go.
So, now we have an integer, which is a
spawn point. So, I don't really like it
being i, so why don't I just call it spawn
point maybe. Spawn point, no because it gets
too long, doesn't it?  Spawn point number is just too long. Let's start getting comfortable
with slightly shorter things, when they're
very short scope local variables...
not going to use them for very long, why not use an i then. So, what we want to do in this
case is, we want to set the transform
position of the current object, which is
the player, to one of the spawn points
transforms. So, we go spawnPoints [i]
taking a value between 1 and the one
less than the length of the array, which is
correct. .transform.position;
So, that's what would happen on
a respawn. So, let's give ourselves a very simple way of respawning every time we tick that button.
So, I'm going to need a private variable... called
boolean, and it's going to be lastToggle or
something, and make that
false. And this is just a really simple way
of just saying if lastToggle doesn't
= reSpawn So, lastToggle and reSpawn are
equal in
the beginning, because they're both false.
But if they weren't equal for any reason
and you've clicked the button, then go ahead and respawn. I'm having slight typing problems today.
And when you finish respawning you then must set your respawn toggle box to false.
Otherwise, if it's not the case that they are
different then, they must be the same, in
which case... What do we do?  We set the last toggle and we just update the last toggle to respawn.
Ok so, simple little toggle there, so let's have a go, see if it works.
Got these spawn points. We could stay out of the Scene View, once we're playing, it might be
easier. So, when I go back to my Scene View, maybe get a slightly overhead view going on,
that'll do, and make sure I can see my player with the Transform Tool.
Ok cool, so if I click on the player and I go down and I click Respawn. Boom, boom, boom, boom!
And one of three. Ok now, let's look from the player's eyes, make sure this works. I've respawned here, is this a
valid spawn point? Sure is! Click it again, quite high in the air that one, but it works.
We can always stop, go to Scene View, and choose how to modify. That one is ok. So, we're just randomly
cycling through. So, the respawning is working! Pretty cool hey and pretty simple, and the
player is fully responsible for all of
that respawning.
So, I think thats it. I think we've covered everything that we needed to in this video, so thanks
for watching, and I hope that simple
method for respawning the player to
random locations, and crucially to random
locations that you can add to as simply
as this. Click on the spawn point,
duplicate, move it to the new position,
check the new position, and make sure it's not in the middle of nowhere like that. Boom!
There you go, and then, you have another spawn point in your array. So, that's the beauty
of doing it like that. When you find the
children, you can just add spawn points
all day and click through them. Ok cool! That was exciting, I landed slightly on the slant there. Why is that?
Is one of these on a hill? So, just go through. If you've got a dodgy one, you can go
through till you get to it. Now, go and see what's happening. What is happening here? This is my
new spawn point, and there's something funny about it. I think it's just too low.
I think I'm ending up in the ground. So,
remember to make any changes to spawn
points out of Play Mode. I think I was
just spawning the player half into the
ground. So, it is worth just checking
through, it's quicker than play testing.
That's why I made this check box, and just make sure that none of them look dodgy. Of course you've
eventually got to get to all of them. Now, is this one ok, for instance? Let's take a look.
It is actually, it's not quite... and we have
another one of these dodgy growing trees, but we know how to fix them.. Cool! See you soon!